
  HARMONY: A FRAMEWORK FOR DEFINING, UPDATING, AND SYNCHRONIZING VIEWS

                 http://www.seas.upenn.edu/~harmony

OVERVIEW
-------

Harmony is framework for defining, updating, and synchronizing
views over strings, trees, and relations.  It can be used, for
example, to synchronize the bookmark files of several different web
browsers, to convert address books represented in vCard to CSV, and to
map between BiBTeX and RIS-formatted bibliographic databases.

A central theme of the project is bringing ideas from programming
languages to bear on a set of problems more commonly regarded as
belonging to the purview of databases. Views are usually discussed in
the context of databases, but actually arise in a host of applications
across many diverse areas of computing.  In many of these
applications, is necessary to apply an update to the view, and have
the update be reflected back on the source. Unfortunately, the view
update problem remains largely unsolved; except in very simple cases,
views are read-only.  Our goal is to develop programming languages in
which programmers can specify both how to calculate a view, and how to
translate updates to a view back to the source, and to use these
bidirectional programs--called lenses--to build converters and
synchronizers for a variety of real-world data formats.

COPYING
-------

Harmony is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation. See the file COPYING for more
information.

GETTING STARTED
---------------

Harmony consists of two similar but distinct source trees.

* Boomerang: our current work is focused on a lens language for string
  data. To get started with see the QuickStart file in
  boomerang/quickStart.src.

* Focal: previously we developed lenses and synchronization algorithms
  for trees and relations. See the Quick Start chapter in the Harmony
  Programmer's Manual (doc/manual.pdf). (If you want to get started
  compiling things right away and read while that is chugging away,
  have a look at src/INSTALL.)

MAILING LIST
------------

Active users of Harmony are encouraged to subscribe to the harmony-hackers
mailing list by visiting:

    http://lists.seas.upenn.edu/mailman/listinfo/harmony-hackers
